Method is a way to perform some task.
Method is a collection of instructions that perform 
a specific task.
It provides the reusability of code.
We can also easily modify code using methods.

1] What is a method in Java?
A method is a block of code or statements to perform a certain
task or operation.
write a method once and use it many times.

2] Method Declaration
The method declaration provides information about method attributes,
such as visibility, return type,name, and arguments.
It has six components that are known as method header, as we have
shown in following :

public int sum(int a,int b)
{
	//method body
} 

Access specifier :- public, private, protected, default
Return Type :- return type can be any data type that the method returns.
			   It may have a primitive data type, object, collection, void etc.  
Method name :- It is a unique name that is used to define the name of a method.
parameter list
method body


3] Types of Method
There are two types of methods in Java
a)Predefined Method
b)User-defined Method

a)Predefined Method
predefined methods are the method that is already defined in the Java class 
libraries is known as predefined methods.
It is also known as the standard library method or built-in method.
We can directly use these methods just by calling them in the program at any 
point. Some pre-defined methods are length(), equals(), compareTo(), sqrt(), etc.
Each and every predefined method is defined inside a class. Such as print() method
is defined in the java.io.PrintStream class. It prints the statement that we write 
inside the method. For example, print("Java"), it prints Java on the console.

b)User-defined Method
The method written by the user or programmer is known as a user-defined method.
These methods are modified according to the requirement.

//user defined method  
public static void findEvenOdd(int num)  
{  
//method body  
if(num%2==0)   
System.out.println(num+" is even");   
else   
System.out.println(num+" is odd");  
}  